Wow. it's just like that time
on the worm farm when I got
caught in the worm silo
- and I had a crush
on my neighbor...
-Echo.
- and I wanted...
-What are you doing.
Cyan?
Oh. I thought maybe
there'd be an echo
because the lights are out.
That doesn't sound right.
but we can test that hypothesis.
-Echo.
-...so I decided
- not to kiss any worms.
-Holy crap. it worked.
My fishmate Heracles is dead
and the oxygen system is down
and we need to fix it now
before we all die!
So. yeah. I decided
not to kiss any worms
because I didn't know if kissing
new worms would be adultery.
Your fishmate is dead?
I didn't even know
you had an alive fishmate
until right now.
but the grief is so immense
that it's left me numb.
I mean. literally can't feel
my fingers.
Look at this. Look at this.
It's just
a fishmate. it's fine.
-It's not fine.
- The more important thing
is for you all to come with me
to the Oxygen Room
so we can get you
in your right minds again.
Whoa. there. Purple.
You're doing the cap-- uh. uh--
oh. no. I'm the captain.
I'm the captain here.
and I captain you all to do
for the oxygen house.
I'm leading.
It's good to leading.
Oh. uh. this way.
Okay. take a deep breath. everyone.
...and release.
All right. how are we feeling?
Is everyone okay?
-Yeah.
I felt normal
the whole time.
Oxygen deprivation
leads to hypoxia.
That's why we let ourselves
get so loopy.
I can't believe we didn't know
we were all running
out of oxygen.
Hey. so. silly question.
I don't know...
I didn't mention
anything about. like.
worm kissing or anything. did I?
Oh. did you ever.
I-I just didn't want
to be a home-wrecker.
Uh. worm-wrecker--
uh. home-worm.
Stop. That oxygen
will keep our minds clear
for another.
I don't know.
eight minutes and 44 seconds.
- We need to fix this fast.
-Don't know how
we're going
to fix it without the lights.
Hey. what happened
to the lights. anyway?
Maybe the lights need oxygen
to breathe. too.
Cyan...
Let's all calm down.
Look. they were definitely
both freak accidents.
Honestly. Purps. it was
probably your fishmate.
Can we please stop talking
about Heracles?
These systems aren't designed
for any foreign entities.
so your illegal fishmate
probably gunked it up
with all of their long poops.
Long poop-- we didn't get
an alert about oxygen being low.
- There's something else.
-I'm just saying.
it's against the rules to
smuggle any petmates on board.
so without them. our oxygen
supply would have been fine.
If you hadn't been so selfish.
your fishmate
- would still be alive.
- Oh! So now it's my fault?
It is your fault.
- We have rules for a reason.
- Oh. look at big Captain Red.
- deflecting the blame again...
-And having
an antiauthoritarian streak
- doesn't make you better...
- ...just like MIRA
taught you to do.
-You bootlicking worm.
- ...than the rest of us.
Whoa. Let's not go
bad-mouthing worms.
-...really not a huge deal.
-You haven't
changed at all.
I wish you were dead!
I...
Purple. that's enough.
This is your captain speaking.
We're splitting into groups
and fixing our ship.
Yellow. Cyan. Black.
get to Electrical
and turn on the lights. stat.
I'm going to Admin
to enter one side
of the oxygen override code
to get our systems
back up and running.
Green. Brown. Purple.
you stay here
and enter the other override
code once I get to Admin.
- Got it?
-Uh. you're putting me
in time-out?
No. Uh. actually. yes.
Does that mean Brown and I
are in time-out. too?
No. uh-- yes.
Uh. you're time-out-adjacent.
Keep your eye on that keypad.
You three get going.
I am good
at being captain. okay?
And I'm good at being alive.
And I'm especially good
at being both at once.
No biggie!
I can't believe
we almost died back there.
I felt like we were
really breaking
some new ground interpersonally.
I used to think death
was really beautiful.
Turns out. it's just a bunch
of vibrant colors
and feeling like I belong.
Disgusting.
But it was nice that we were all
getting along so well. right?
Cyan. of course
we were getting along so well.
my brain was at 20% oxygen.
I would have gotten along
with one of Green's kiss worms.
Uh. what are you doing?
What am I doing?
What are you doing. Black?
-What?
- You've been horrible to me
this whole trip.
It's not a trip. it's a job.
All you ever say is.
"Cyan shouldn't be here this"
and "Cyan was
a budget hire that."
and I don't deserve it.
It's not my fault
you hate rocks now.
And you know what?
I'm not bad at my job.
I like my job.
and I'm good at doing it.
Yeah. I've been taking notes
and checking vibes
and researching Ore
while you won't even take
a second look at Ore-Plus.
even though it's special.
It's special ore.
That's what "plus" means!
It's all gonna get
melted down anyway. who cares?
You cares! You should cares!
But you don't cares
about anything anymore.
I can fix the lights by myself.
Geez. What was that all about?
Fixing the lights requires
two competent crewmates.
That's why Red had to send
three of us.
Well. you've been
kind of an a-hole.
-What?
-I didn't always
like Brown.
In fact. I was
a real spicy meatball.
Too many cooks
in the kitchen. right?
What's another chef gonna do
that I can't?
Exactly. Wait...
But Brown listens to me.
Brown keeps me grounded.
When we stand
on each other's shoulders.
literally and metaphorically.
we can reach the real
high-quality guanciale.
literally and metaphorically.
And we all know
the best guanciale lives
on the top shelf.
because the top shelf is where
the air pressure is
the least likely to interfere
with the meat's depth of flavor.
Plus. when you factor in
humidity--
What are you even talking about?
See? This is why I need Brown.
-Where are you going?
-Got to fix the lights.
Yeah. you're right. let's go.
Said it yourself.
Just need
two competent crewmates.
We'll be fine.
Permission to be vulnerable?
Okay. here I go.
Um. I grew up
around a lot of animals.
Mostly worms.
What I'm trying to say is.
I know what it's like
to lose a petmate.
It might not seem
like a big deal to other folks.
but... are you okay?
- Purple?
-Huh?
Yeah. sure. I'm fine.
Purple... I know you're
going through a lot
because of Heracles.
and on top of that.
whatever's going on
between you and Red.
so... I give you permission
to be vulnerable.
Tell me about--
I said I'm fine.
Everything's fine.
You know what? I'm not fine.
Crewmates are dying.
and maybe Heracles...
If I hadn't brought them...
This mission has been
really stressful
and I'm having
a really bad time
and it's all because Red...
We were actually interns
together. back in the day.
We were both so happy
to have somebody to work with.
someone to rely on.
We didn't know it at the time.
but the whole place was
understaffed. underfunded.
basically running on fumes.
When the reactor started
melting down.
Red and I did all we could.
but we were just two interns.
It wasn't up to us.
Nothing was working.
Somehow. nobody died.
but the nuclear fallout
made the whole colony
uninhabitable.
All because MIRA wanted
to cut corners.
Everyone had to leave.
And the crewmates were
displaced.
It wasn't like MIRA was
gonna help them relocate.
The company wanted
to cover it up.
I wanted to blow
the whistle. but Red...
Red stayed silent.
So I got the boot.
and as the cherry on top
of the nuclear waste sundae.
MIRA made sure no one else
would hire me after that.
So the only reason I'm here.
the only reason I have any job.
is because of Red's--
I don't know-- pity handout?
I guess I should be
grateful. but I...
...I hate that I'm working
for MIRA again.
And all Red can talk about is
how amazing they are.
Red doesn't even seem to care.
And I don't know how
I'm supposed to feel. but...
I don't think I'm ready
to forgive Red just yet.
Oh! They must have
fixed the lights.
Huh?
And it seems like Red made it
to the other keypad safely.
All right. here we go.
One. two. three. four. five.
Huh?
What's going on?
What is it?
This is why we never got
an alert about oxygen levels.
The wire. It's been cut.
Ah!
Okay. that should do it.
Systems online.
Oxygen's working.
Sup. losers. And Purple.
-I thought
you were an alien.
-What?
Hang on. Where is everyone else?
Where are Yellow and Cyan?
Oh. they got all huffy
and said they'd take care
of the lights themselves.
What you talking about?
-Ah!
-Work stuff.
Uh. okay. well. everything's
back online now.
All thanks to my delegation
and leadership efforts.
I told you I was good at this.
Actually. it's not that simple.
Look. Purple.
I know you've had
an "emotional" day. but--
The oxygen system didn't
just break on its own.
What are you talking about?
There's a saboteur onbeurd!
Wait. there's a second impostor?
And it wasn't Heracles' fault
that things went wrong.
like someone was saying.
Oh. hey. Yellow.
-Yellow?
-Cyan!
-Cyan?
-No. Yellow.
No. Cyan! Cyan's dead!
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org
Keybot. Keybot. Keybot. Keybot.
Chirp.